>> Scott Moss: Data Modeling with MongoDB.
So this will just be more of
a reference thing for you all and
how to do things with Mongo than it is
completely new different data bases.
So if you've never used a database before,
I'm not gonna go into extreme detail about
how databases work and all that stuff.
We have another course for
that, intro to MongoDB that goes
a little further into that.
But I will be talking about how to use
Mongo and Mongoose in this course.
So if you want more detail about
just the database in general,
definitely check out that course.
It's mostly about data modeling and
not so much working with the database.
Cool, so we talk about Mongo being
a document store where it's schemaless.
So basically, you can store whatever
you want in there and it'll save it.
But I said that's a really bad idea and
we'll talk about it later.
Well, this is now.
[LAUGH] We don't wanna do that.
So we definitely want to use schemas for
our schemaless DB.
So what does that mean and
why do I always use Postgress instead?
Well, you can.
You can use prosgrez if you want.
But I decided to use Mongo for
this exercise because it's
a lot easier to get set up.
But yeah, you should always use a schema
for you models, and Mongoose makes it easy
to create those schemas, and
that's just my tool of choice.
So MongoDB is a schemaless document store,
you should always use a schemaless,
otherwise you will go crazy.
I've actually worked with organizations
before that they switched over from like
to some relational database, and then they
used Mongo because it was schemaless.
And they went with that and
it just threw everything in the database.
And then at some point,
you're gonna have to check the data.
At some point,
you're gonna have to do that.
So guess where they decided to do it?
On the front end.
So on the front end, it's literally just
validating all the data that comes back
from an API and
it is the worst place to do it.
I mean,
the front end was just full of errors.
Full of errors, there were no tests,
it was really bad.
So that's what happens if
you don't have a schema.
At some point,
you're gonna have to validate that data.
You better validate it before
it goes in the database.
Otherwise every single client that use
that data is gonna have to do some type of
validation in order to work.
So definitely use a schema.
MongoDB has added support for
creating schema, so
mongoose is a separate
package than MongoDB.
For MongoDB, the JavaScript client has
added support for schemas, like this year.
So you could use just the MongoDB
client to create schemas and
the way they do it is a little different
than the way Mongoose does it.
But they too have created support for
schemas although they
are a schemas database.
So even they're saying, like yeah they
should probably use some schemas here.
So you can use that if you want,
but Mongoose is still way better.
Just way better.
>> Scott Moss: So we can create the models
for each REST resource we want, and
then we can expose it to the API.
So what does that mean?
So if we go over to our resources here,
for instance,
let's look at the user resource, you can
see I have controller model router, so
I click on model,
>> Scott Moss: You can see I have a schema
here that describes what fields this
user resource is gonna have on it.
And then I use that
schema to create a model.
And the model is
the JavaScript representation
of that database resource
that we're gonna use, right?
This is how we interact with the users and
the databases by using this user model.
So that's how Mongoose kind of
works with schemas and models.
You create a schema and
that schema is used to create a model.
And that model holds instructions for that
schema so you can use it in JavaScript.